>> Mike North: So let's look at
the solution for this first exercise.
We're just gonna be working
in color-utils, and
I'll bring the tests up here.
Actually they're still running.
So just complete the story here.
Npm test color functions.
And when this pops up, if you hit Enter,
you'll get rid of that little message,
and we can see that we're
passing the first two tests,
which assert that the correct functions
are exported from this module, and
basically failing almost everything else.
So hex to RGB,
we want that, just if we look at
this situation here, and that these,
we can kind of understand what types
these functions are designed to receive.
So hex to RGB should take in a string
called hex, or whatever we want to
call it, and there's our type
annotation and it's going to return.
Anyone want to tell me what type
this function's gonna return?
>> Speaker 2: An object?
An object, yeah.
Three numbers.
>> Mike North: Okay, so it's an object
with three numbers but I'm still missing
some information that I need to-
>> Speaker 2: R number, g number,
b number:
>> Mike North: Great.
And so now the type script is telling us,
you have not returned a value
that matches this type.
So we've stated that this
must return this thing.
And basically every path
through this function.
For example if we had a condition that in
some situation was not returning this,
we would get yelled at.
It is ensuring that we've made
a guarantee, we've stated our intent, and
now we have to follow through on it and
make sure that whatever this does,
it eventually is going
to return that thing.
Here we are going to take in R,
G and B, and those,
all three of them, are numbers,
and it's gonna return a string.
And we're getting yelled at for
a similar reason here.
So it's saying, a function whose
declared type is neither void nor
any must return a value.
Void would indicate this function does
not, it basically returns undefined.
Right, there's no value to be captured.
So let's proceed.
So for hexToRgb, we've basically got,
if you think about our string,
it looks like this.
FF0000, something like that,
and if we break it up, it's
almost like we've got pairs of numbers
that correspond to each color channel.
And we have to prepared for the case
where we've got something like this too.
So I'm gonna do, I'm just gonna
have a hacky type solution to this.
And we can say something like this.
Let RGB equal string, oops,
equal hex, and this is,
I guess we can't do that.
So we'll do it like this.
So if hex length is 3,
then we're going to hextoRgb.
>> Mike North: Sorry,
it's tough to talk and
type at the same time, hr, hg, hb.
So now effectively we've got those three
variables representing those characters.
>> Mike North: And we're just gonna
basically double each character and
pass that in.
So now from this point on we can know
that,
>> Mike North: Our
string is gonna be six characters long.
We've taken care of
the three character case and
sort of merged it with
the six character case.
If I hover over this hexToRgb,
you can see in this lower part.
There we go, you can see that there is
there is awareness in this editor, okay?
Visual Studio Code knows that this
is the function that takes a string,
and it returns an object with r,
g and b properties.
So if I were to pass in something
that's not a string, it would complain.
This is type safety working for us.
So down here, I know hat am gonna
have a six character hex string.
Or assuming I get reasonable input here,
right?
I guess we could pass in undefined or
something, but
we won't worry about that for now.
So what we're gonna do then is, we want
to basically break this up into color
channels, and we could think of that
as two character offsets, right?
Pairs of characters starting at 0,
2 and 4.
>> Mike North: So let's say0,
2, 4, map(offset, and
we'll then say hex.substring,
starting at the offset.
And leave it up to offset plus 2.
So this will give us something
that looks like this.
>> Mike North: Okay, so that's step one.
And of course, we can merge
a couple things together here and
make this more efficient.
I like to optimize for readability here.
So now we've got individual
hex color channels, and
basically we want to get
to them into integers, so
hex channel,
we're gonna parse in knowing it's 16,
and that should gives
us something like that.
>> Mike North: We should be
able to return that right away.
So we've got our hexToRgb working,
I think in all cases now.
At least a bunch of them.
So this is gonna end up
with something like.
>> Mike North: And this down here is.
>> Mike North: So those were our
stages of transformation there.
Sorry I have a typo.
Great.
Now note that,
that was that allowing it to compile.
Interesting.
So down here, and by the way,
now this is not complaining anymore,
this function's done,
the type script compiler's happy.
For rgbToHex, ultimately,
we wanna look at this as, we've got r,
g and b values, we need them to be
converted to their hex presentation and
then sort of smooshed
together in a string.
So I expect we're gonna start with r,
g and b like this, and
eventually we'll join them
together in a string like that.
But obviously we have to do
some stuff in the middle.
The first thing we wanna do is convert,
we'll call this a decimal channel,
we'll convert that to hex.
So we can say,
>> Mike North: Convert it like that,
and then we'll hit save.
And we're still failing four tests.
Let's see up here.
So if we look up here,
we can see the tests that we're failing.
This is an interesting one, and
we'll come back to it later,
this one's telling us something here.
Can anyone guess what's
going on with this test?
>> Mike North: So
what's the hex presentation of 2,5,5?
>> Speaker 3: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Mike North: Right.
And what's hex representation of 0?
>> Speaker 3: 00.
>> Mike North: Well, we want it to be 00,
but I think it's just 0 in this case,
right?
We don't have that double-digit value.
So we can just add another map in here,
saying, hexCh.length,
if it's 1,
then we'll just pad it with a 0.
Otherwise leave it alone.
That should do it, with one exception.
So here we can see we're passing in 299.
We're basically over-shooting the value
of,
>> Mike North: Well,
we've got two failing actually let's see,
both failing.
Okay, so in this case we're overshooting
our maximum allowed value for r, and
we're got 12b, that's the representation
of the red channel, and
down here we've got -1e.
That is the representation of -30.
So basically out of bounds values
are not being treated well,
when we're taking in r, g and b values.
So what we can do here is kind of
box this value in between 0 and
255, and MathMax and
MathMin are great for this.
So we're gonna take the maximum of 0, or
the color channel, whichever is greater.
Now we took care of one case and
here's the other one.
>> Mike North: And
now we're passing everything.
So just to show you how you could use this
code runner to test this kind of thing.
>> Mike North: You just
do something like this.
Hit run.
>> Mike North: And there it is.
So code runner is a great tool to have
in here, especially if you just wanna
experiment, like what would happen if
I tried this and does this is work?
So that's the solution
to the first exercise,
really just intended as warmup and
to get us used to annotations here, and
to hopefully to help you
understand that it keeps us
honest where if we pass something,
for example, into this parse int,
which takes as an argument a string.
If we pass something else into it,
like this,
we would have gotten an error, right.
And so even as we map over things,
basically the types we define when we
take arguments into this function,
they trickle through all of these
functions that we're using.
And the reason is,
TypeScript has baked into it typed
definitions that all of
the JavaScript core functionality for
the DOM API for a lot of stuff.
So it's more than just our code
that has types along with it.
It is all of the code around ours as well.